how the heck do you even grow on Tik Tok
well don't worry I'm about to tell you
and this is not just some random advice
this is all based on a study that
analyzed over 880,000 Tik Tok accounts
and over 1 million
posts hey there my name is Brock Johnson
this is Yuki Johnson and in today's
episode I'm going to share with you my
eight steps to growing on Tik Tok in
2025 and this is coming from someone who
grew on Tik Tok way back in 2019 to over
300,000 followers on Tik Tok but since
then I've decided to start over that's
right at the beginning of 2024 I started
over on Tik Tok with a brand new fresh
account I have grown to 10,000 followers
on Tik Tok in one year I believe that
Tik Tok is definitely here to stay but
the way that you grow on Tik Tok and the
popular kinds of videos what is most
effective what is actually working is
very different in 2025 than way back
when I started on Tik Tok in 2019 let's
begin by addressing why I decided to
start over on Tik Tok because it
actually very clearly relates to step
number one for growing on Tik Tok so
back in 2019 Tik Tok was a brand new
social media platform it had just been
rebranded from what was previously
musically and it wasn't really widely
used or well known yet but I saw the
people were dancing and having fun on
the app and if you know me you know I
like to dance around and have fun and so
I was like sure I'll join Tik Tok and
I'll get in on some of this funny dance
choreography this was also at the time
that I was a college football player so
a lot of my content and a lot of my life
really just revolved around being a
football player so I decided to post a
couple videos just a couple silly Goofy
dancing videos nothing too serious some
of them were in the locker room some of
them were with my football pads on some
of them were with some of my football
teammates and a few days later I checked
my Tik Tok and I had blown up we're
talking numerous videos with over a
million views one of them with over 10
million views and this was at a time
where Tik Tok was just a fraction of the
size that it was today and So within a
matter of weeks I went from just
downloading and creating my account to
over 300,000 followers on Tik Tok with
numerous viral videos I basically
couldn't post a video without getting at
least 100,000 views this was really the
Golden Age of Tik Tok when everyone who
posted a video was going viral and
having wild success this is because this
was in the early days when there was a
really low amount of competition a
really low Supply if you will but the
demand was constantly increasing there
was more people signing up every day but
not necessarily more people creating
content every single day so for those of
us like myself who were creating content
it was relatively easy especially
compared to nowadays to go viral and to
grow your Following also because it was
the early days not many people followed
anyone yet there weren't very many
popular content creators or Tik tokers
yet and so if you came across someone's
video who you liked you were a lot more
willing to press follow back then than
nowadays but how does this relate to
nowadays and why did I decide to start
over well like I described the majority
of my videos were dancing and a lot of
them were with my teammates or wearing
my football pads or I was in my football
uniform and so because of that my
followers only wanted that content they
only wanted funny skits dancing and
football related content but I shouldn't
even say football related content
because they didn't want like football
highlights they wanted dancing in
football pads so then fast forward a few
years later and I'm out of college I've
graduated I no longer have my football
pads because that would be weird
and I'm a business owner I'm an
entrepreneur I'm the co-host of this
podcast I teach other business owners
how to grow and monetize their social
media so I start posting about that on
Tik Tok to my 300,000 followers and I
was struggling to get a th000 views I
was struggling to get any engagement I
was struggling to reach the people who
followed me and I was definitely
struggling to grow in fact month after
month my following was going down I was
losing followers and people were leaving
my profile why did this take place this
happened because I changed my Niche
because my original Niche was dancing
and funny skit related content wearing
my football pads and now my Niche was
something totally different I was
appealing to business owners and content
creators like yourself who want to grow
and monetize on the platform and so step
number one to growing on Tik Tok in 2025
is actually the same step one from 2019
it is to pick your Niche now if you're
just getting started and you don't know
what your Niche is you don't know what
you want to talk about yet you don't
know what your posts and your content to
revolve around it's okay to experiment
and in fact I think it's actually
beneficial to experiment it's beneficial
to spend a few weeks or maybe even a few
months trying out different kinds of
content creating different styles of
videos and posting about a wide variety
of things to figure out what truly is
your calling or what truly is your Niche
the thing that you are super excited
about and that you're going to talk
about every single day but once you do
find that thing stick to it and make
make sure that you're sure of it you
don't need to be sure of it for the rest
of your life but at least for the next
few years make sure that you are
sticking to that one topic and if you
are going to change that topic make sure
it's to an adjacent category like maybe
from dancing in football pads to dancing
non football pads make sure it's not
dancing in football pads to helping
entrepreneurs and creators grow a
business on social media and if you want
a definition for Niche there's a million
different definitions online what I like
to go with is that a niche is two
ingredients there's two parts to your
niche one part of your Niche is the who
who are you going to be posting for what
are the demographics that you are trying
to attract back when I first started I
didn't really think about it and so I
was mainly attracting fellow college
students or even high schoolers who just
wanted like a funny little dancing video
on Tik Tok but now my who is business
owners and content creators so while
there are definitely some business
owners and content creators who are in
the early stages of college or in high
school the majority of them are a little
bit older so it's a different age
demographic it's a different kind of
person that I'm trying to attract now
and then the second part second
ingredient of Niche is of course what
are you going to be talking to them
about what are the topics you're going
to cover what are the problems that
you're going to solve what is the
general umbrella industry that you are a
part of are you helping people learn to
become better Bakers are you sharing
political news and opinions are you
getting tips to become a better rock
climber are you a parrot parent and
you're giving tips for caring for your
bird so again step number one for
growing on Tik Tok is picking out your
Niche the worst thing that could happen
is that you don't pick a niche and you
start posting about all these different
topics one of them goes viral one of
your videos does well and all of a
sudden you have a bunch of followers in
this one category who ultimately don't
want to follow you who ultimately have
no interest in the other things that
you're posting I'll give you another
example besides just my dancing and
football pads example one of my good
friends posted a video on Tik Tok about
like a green beans and paper bag thing
that she ate and it went viral and so
she got a bunch of followers who
followed her expecting recipe content
and food related content but that's not
the kind of content creator she is
that's not who she's trying to attract
that's not the topic that she can
realistically regularly talk about on a
daily basis so all of a sudden she had a
big influx of followers which seems
really good on paper but unfortunately
those followers were not ideal and if
she were to ever monetize or try to
create a business a service something
that she wanted to sell maybe a product
or digital product on her Tik Tok those
people wouldn't be interested unless it
was like a recipe or food related topic
so again step number one is to pick your
Niche picking your Niche also helps
because it helps train the algorithm
when you consistently post about one
topic day after day the algorithm learns
what that topic is and it helps show
your content to the people who would be
interested if I post about sandwiches
every single day then the algorithm is
going to learn that and it's going to
also learn what kinds of people are
interested in Sandwich making content
it's going to push out my content to the
people who would be interested step
number two is probably the simplest of
all the steps and it's just to set up
your profile and make sure that it's set
up correctly make sure that if this is a
personal brand that your username has
your personal name in it if this is a
business brand that it has your business
name or your company name in the
username and make sure that your profile
picture is a close-up well-lit selfie if
this is a personal brand AKA you are
going to be in every video you want your
face in the profile picture and you
probably want it really close up with a
solid color background so that it pops
off the page if this is for your brand
or your business then I would recommend
having a logo as your profile picture
but make sure that it is a logo that was
designed to be a profile picture not
just a random logo for example I
wouldn't use the full Google logo as
Google's profile picture the g g l e
with the rainbow colors that would be a
horrible profile picture because it
would be too zoomed out in far too small
to read or easily recognize so instead
what does a smart company like Google do
they use the G the G icon with the kind
of multicolor it still represents Google
but it is clearly a logo that was
designed to be used as an icon or as a
profile picture so that can be much
smaller but still make sense and grab
attention also your actual bio on Tik
Tok I will say it matters far less on
Tik Tok than it does on Instagram over
on Instagram your bio is essential it's
searchable it's a component as to how
people decide to follow you or not
they're going to read through your bio
and make that determination on Tik Tok
not so much on Tik to really your
content does the talking but it is
helpful in your bio to either add some
credibility give us a little bit of
background as to why you're talking
about the topic or why this Niche is
your Niche or just tell us a little bit
more about the kinds of content that
you're going to be posting on Tik Tok
but again the Tik Tok bio is not super
important and the number of characters
that you can use is far fewer on Tik Tok
than on Instagram so really just a
sentence that's briefly describing who
you are what you do and what your
credibility is should be fine for your
Tik Tok bio next up step three for
growing on Tik Tok before we even start
posting is we're going to curate a feed
of ideas now maybe you've already been
using Tik Tok for a while and so your
for you page is all the things you're
interested in him I know that when I
open Tik Tok my for you page has Pokemon
content and snowboarding content the
things I'm interested in but the things
that don't necessarily relate to what I
post about or what I create content
about so when I created my new Tik Tok
account when I started over at the
beginning of 2024 what I did was
intentionally curate my for you page so
that everything that I was being shown
and recommended was essentially a post
idea this is going to be such a useful
hack for you moving forward so that when
you are struggling for Content ideas
when you do need some inspiration rather
than having to go looking for it it's
basically going to be served to you on a
silver platter that is your for you page
how do you do that step one is I would
recommend following at least 10 accounts
that already post about what you want to
post about or if there's no one in the
world who posts about what you want to
post about at least people who post
similar content people who post content
that's adjacent to what you're going to
be posting or at least they're in the
same industry follow a bunch of them and
start engaging with their posts then as
you're scrolling through your for you
page in intentionally engage with
accounts that you're getting ideas from
if a video pops up and you're like oh
this is a great idea I could totally
recreate my own version of this follow
that account like the video maybe even
save the video If you then scroll down
and the next video is like a train and
you're like I don't care about trains
I'm not going to create train related
content I'm creating Sushi related
content well then skip the Train video
or tap the share button in the bottom
right hand corner and then tap the
broken heart that says not interested
and that will tell the algorithm
directly do not show me any more train
related content that way you are
essentially training pun intended the
algorithm to not show you that content
and instead show you the kind of content
that you're going to get ideas and
inspiration from in the future this has
been super helpful for me not just as a
Creator but also as a consumer because
sometimes you just want to turn off your
brain and you want to stop working and
stop creating content so when I want to
do that I log into my old Tik Tok
account and I still have my good old for
you page which I've been training for
The Last 5 Years to show me the kinds of
content that I want to see and when I'm
ready to create content when I'm ready
to flip that switch and become a
business owner and a content creator I
can switch to my new Tik Tok account and
I can see a for you page that is just
filled with ideas and inspiration so
those were the first three steps to
growing on Tik Tok in 2025 the rest of
these steps are going to be strategic
recommendations that come from a recent
study that was published by metrol which
is a major scheduling tool it's the
scheduling tool that I use
and they put out a study that analyzed
over 1 million Tik Tok posts and over
880,000 Tik Tok accounts to figure out
things like how much should you post
what's the best time of day to post how
do you reach more people what should you
do about hashtags and SEO so I'm going
to share all of that with you because
this is what has informed my strategy
and this is literally the datadriven
best practices moving forward now I do
want to say these are best practices and
general recommendations nothing is
one-sized fits all ultimately there are
going to be Different Strokes for
different folks some things are going to
work for one person that might not work
for someone else and so what I'm about
to share with you are averages they are
what works for most people but you might
not be most people you might be an
outlier or an exception the only way to
tell is ultimately to put this into
practice not to get on my soap box and
get too preachy at you but I do want to
pause myself for a second and say no
matter what I say so far or for the rest
of this podcast ultimately it's up to
you to take action it's up to you to
create content it's up to you to stay
consistent it's up to you to implement
what I am teaching so once you finish
watching or listening to this podcast I
want you to do your homework and
actually go out there into the world
create your account and start creating
content and follow through on the tips
and strategies that I'm about to share
and ultimately if you find after a few
months that these things aren't working
you can adjust your strategy but at
least you know that that isn't going to
work at least you know what wasn't
working for you and you can adjust but
you'll never know what's not working
until you give it a try so with all that
being said how much should you post on
Tik Tok the Tik Tok algorithm is
fundamentally different than any other
social media it's part of what makes Tik
Tok so addictive it's part of what makes
Tik Tok so successful but it's also what
makes us post as much or as little as we
should on Tik Tok basically the highle
view of it is that the Tik Tok algorithm
is content driven While most other
algorithms specifically the Instagram
algorithm is social driven so on
Instagram they're looking at what
friends do you have what followers do
you follow what do your followers engage
with if you're always engaging with this
kind of content and other people are
always engaging with this kind of
content then we should show you post
that they're into the Instagram
algorithm really cares about the Social
Circle and that's because of its roots
going all the way back to the Facebook
algorithm 20 years ago the Tik Tok
algorithm however doesn't really care
who you follow and definitely doesn't
care about who you follow who they
follow the Tik Tok algorithm just says
if you like this kind of content we're
going to show you more of this kind of
content so that's really great news for
those of us who are starting over on Tik
Tok that is why it is so much easier to
go viral and reach more people on Tik
Tok than it is on any other platform
because on Tik Tok more than anywhere
else they don't care about how many
followers you have they don't care if
someone decided to follow you or someone
else they just care about are you making
the content that people want to see
again that goes back to point number one
about Niche if you're consistently
making content about one Niche or one
topic then the algorithm is able to
learn what that is and show it to people
who are interested so all this to say
how much should you post on Tik Tok the
more the better I'm going to recommend
because I know you want to number at
least two posts per day on Tik Tok now
according to that study by metrial the
more times you post in a day the more
followers you have so there's a direct
correlation between posting frequency
and total number of followers so if you
want to post three four five six even
seven times a day go for it my bigger
broader recommendation would be to focus
on what you can sustain rather than
getting all fired up when this podcast
episode ends and posting seven times
today and six times tomorrow and seven
times the next day and then burning out
running out of ideas feeling overwhelmed
and stressed out and giving up instead
of doing that figure out a number that
you can realistically sustain for me
over the course of 2024 TI Tok hasn't
been my main focus I've been focused on
other areas of my business and even
other areas of social media and so while
I've been taking Tik Tok more seriously
in 2024 than in years's past it hasn't
been my main social media and so because
of that I have figured out that I can
realistically sustain about two posts
per day on Tik Tok in 2024 but
admittedly a lot of those posts have
been repost from Instagram or even
reposts from previous Tik toks we'll get
to that later but again what I have
found that can sustain is about one to
two Tik toks per day so I want you to
figure out realistically based off the
season of life you're in based off your
business goals based off your capacity
and availability how much can you
realistically sustain posting on Tik Tok
and then once you find that number
number one stick to it and number two
challenge yourself to do a little bit
more so if you can realistically sustain
one a day some days try to post a second
time if you can realistically sustain
just three a week then challenge
yourself to post four a week sometimes
because it is through challenging
yourself to push a little bit outside of
your comfort zone that the growth will
take place not just on Tik Tok but also
in life so again minimum two posts per
day would be my general recommendation
and for those two posts I'm going to
suggest that one of them be a trend so
something that already exists on Tik Tok
this doesn't necessarily have to be a
trending audio but it can also just be a
trending content style I'm sure that you
could think of a hundreds examples right
now where not everyone is using the
exact same background music but everyone
is basically creating a variety of the
same kind of video and then your second
post is going to be a talking head Style
video just like I'm making right now
talking directly into the camera it can
be storytelling it can be giving a
tutorial it can be giving a quick tip it
can be explaining something it can be
giving a list of ideas something like
that where you are using your own voice
and talking directly to the camera that
is going to be your second video for
both of these videos I would recommend a
duration of 10 to 60 seconds according
to the metrol study the overall ideal
length for your Tik Tok videos is
actually between 2 and 5 minutes which
is mind-blowing because there used to be
a thought that the best way to grow on
Tik Tok was with seven or less second
videos and that used to be true but now
Tik Tok is really preferring long form
content so overall the data suggested a
2 to 5 minute video is going to do the
best however according to this metrical
study accounts that are newer or smaller
accounts with less than a thousand
followers perform best when their videos
are between 10 and 60 seconds long so
aim for that 10 to 60 second Mark
whether you're doing a trend or an
original talking head audio and that
should perform best what time should you
post those two posts well according to
the metrial study the best times to post
are in the early mornings between 2 and
3:00 a.m. for most professional profiles
it was really interesting to note in the
metrical study that there was quite a
difference in performance and best
performing times between professional
and non-professional accounts I'm going
to recommend that you switch to a
professional account so you can get the
advanced analytics that you can get
access to the Tik Tok Creator front so
that you can integrate with thirdparty
tools I just definitely think it's in
your best interest to switch to a
professional account rather than just a
generic personal account but it is
interesting to note that there was
slightly different numbers and slightly
different best practice IES for each but
again if you have a Professional Profile
according to metrol the general best
time to post is between 2 and 3 a.m. in
your local time zone now I understand
that might not be realistic for you I
understand that you can't manually post
at that hour because you're asleep most
days so I would recommend either using a
thirdparty scheduler like metrol for
example or just posting your content at
a different time it's not like it's
going to tank and do horrible if it was
was posted at 7:00 a.m. when you wake up
and it would have gone viral if you had
just posted it 2 hours earlier it might
perform a little bit better if you post
at 2 or 3 in the morning but generally
speaking on Tik Tok as with most social
medias there is no Universal best time
to post there's only the best time for
you and your account so figure out what
works best for you and go from there all
right tip number six to grow on Tik Tok
in 2025 is to improve your seo seo
stands for search engine optimization
and there were some pretty exciting news
that came out in 2024 a study that
basically showed that people under the
age of 35 are using Tik Tok and
Instagram to search for things more than
they're using Google if you add YouTube
into the equation so YouTube Instagram
and Tik Tok every generation is now
using those three to search for things
more than they are using Google which is
mindblowing because when you think of
searching it you think of Googling it
but now most people are turning to Tik
Tok Instagram and YouTube to search for
things more than even Google so where
does SEO fit into this and how do you
actually improve your SEO with your
posts on Tik Tok there are three main
areas that I would recommend focusing on
those three main areas are number one
the video itself a lot of people either
fail to remember or don't know that the
text on screen is 100% analyzed by the
algorithm the algorithm can scan your
video and it is scanning your video at
all times to read the text on screen the
titles that you put the captions the
close captions that is on the video and
any sort of text that you add to the
screen that is visible and that aids in
your SEO according to the study by
metrical they found that when adding a
cover or text to the screen on the
actual video on Tik Tok it significantly
increased their chances of showing up in
search results that tells us plain and
simple that one of the best ways to
improve your SEO on Tik Tok is by
including closed captions text on screen
or text on the cover that relates to the
video itself the second area that can
improve your SEO is the caption the
actual text that you're putting below
the video usually the best practice on
Tik Tok is to keep your captions
relatively short unlike Instagram where
people often times like to write really
long captions because people like to
read really long captions on Tik Tok
it's a general best practice to just
have one to two sentences in your
caption in your caption on Tik Tok is
also where you're going to put the third
ingredient for improving your SEO and
that is your hashtags now back in the
early days of Tik Tok people didn't
really know what to do with their
hashtags so they would put hash fyp to
try to get on the for you page that's
not what I would recommend instead what
I would recommend is to use three to
five hashtags that are specific to the
content itself not specific to your
account but specific to this exact post
so for example if you were giving
beginner rock climber tips for men in
their 30s then you wouldn't do #
beginner rock climber tips in every post
instead you would use hashtags that are
specific to the post itself so if one
post is a gear guide for the best
recommendations for rock climbing gear
then you would use a hashtag like
beginner rock climbing gear or hashtag
rock climbing gear for beginners
hashtags that are very specific and that
basically describe the video so that if
someone and this is a great thing to
imag imine imagine someone couldn't see
your video but you had to describe what
it was to them in just three to five
words that's what I would recommend for
your hashtags and again three to five
hashtags is best rather than trying to
add a bunch of hashtags which can
confuse the algorithm and overload the
searching capabilities basically trying
to put your post in too many different
areas stick to three to five hashtags
that relate to and describe your content
and this is important because according
to that study from metrical the vast
majority of views on Tik Tok come from
the for you page they don't come from
the following page they don't
necessarily come from the search page
they come directly from the foru page so
when you are using these SEO tools not
only does it Aid in your search ability
it helps the algorithm more easily
figure out what your content is about
like # beginner rock climbing gear so
then it can show your content to people
who would be interested in that sort of
content that pretty much wraps up our
best practices in terms of what you
should post when you should post and how
you should post now there are a few
other key ingredients to make sure that
you are having success and that you're
growing and getting the views that you
deserve on Tik Tok so tip number seven
for growing on Tik Tok in 2025 is to
respond to every comment there's kind of
this stigma or this common practice on
Tik Tok where a lot of creators do not
respond to their comments I don't know
why this is I don't know if it's people
being too cool for school but it has
been shown that when you consistently
respond to people
answer questions and react and respond
to comments your page does better you
grow more there's a stronger sense of
community and people keep coming back I
heard this great analogy the other day
from my friend low who works for the St
team and she said if you were to go into
a coffee shop and let's say compliment
the Barista on their jacket and the
Barista didn't respond you would
probably not only never speak to that
Barista again but you might not ever
even shop at that coffee shop again and
the same is true on social media if
people are taking the time to comment on
your page even if it's just something
like a laughing emoji take the time to
reciprocate take the time to respond at
the end of the day it is social media so
make sure that you are interacting
responding and a best practice on Tik
Tok is don't just respond but respond
with a follow-up question and whenever
possible use the reply with a video tool
to create an additional video it kind of
creates like a little chain or a
playlist if you will where people can go
from one video they can see the comments
where someone asked a question and they
can go right to your next video where
you are answering said question so tip
number seven is to react respond and
just be social tip number eight of eight
and I will actually throw in a bonus tip
for tip number nine but tip number eight
because I promised you eight tips to
grow on Tik Tok in 2025 is to repost
your best content every 90 days this is
something that I am a huge proponent of
on Instagram if youve watch any of my
Instagram trainings you know what I'm
about to say but it goes for Tik Tok as
well once 3 months have passed even if
the trend is no longer trending post
that popular video again if you ever
have a video that goes viral or even if
it just does better than the rest like
your average videos get like 1,000 views
and you suddenly have a video that gets
5,000 once two to three months have past
post it again if it did well the first
time it will likely do well the second
time just make sure that there isn't any
sort of Tik Tok water mark or logo on
the video and you're good to go you can
use the same hashtags the same caption
the same audio the same video Everything
post it again you do not need to delete
the original you do not need to announce
that the second one is a repost by
simply posting it again you really
significantly increase your chances of
that video doing well and of course in
turn your account growing and then last
but not least I will give you one more
bonus tip that we have seen to be
effective it's not necessary but it has
been very helpful for many accounts
growing on Tik Tok and that is to use
Tik Tok live there seems to be a strong
correlation between people who go live
more frequently and people who grow on
Tik Tok there also seems to be a
correlation that when you post a video
and then go live the video you posted
right before going live oftentimes will
reach a wider or a larger audience so if
you have the capacity to go live on Tik
Tok knock your socks off and go for it
those were my eight plus one tips for
growing on Tik Tok in 2025 if you want
more content like this don't forget to
subscribe to the podcast and leave a
like thank you so much for being here
today and as always happy networking
okay